in the last video we talked about the
recommender system problem where for
example you may have a set of movies and
you may have a set of users each of whom
has rated some subsets of the movies
that rated the movies one to five stars
or 0 to 5 stars and what we would like
to do is look at these users and predict
how they would have rated other movies
that they have not yet rated in this
video I'd like to talk about our first
approach to building a recommender
system this approach is called
content-based recommendations here's our
data set from the fall and just remind
you of a bit of notation I was using and
you to denote the number of users and so
that's equal to 4 and nm to denote the
number of movies I have 5 movies so how
do I predict what these missing values
would be let's suppose that for each of
these movies I have a set of features
folder in particular let's say that 20
the movies I have 2 features which on
which I'm going to denote X 1 and X 2
where X 1 measures the degree to which a
movie is a romantic movie and X 2
measures the degree to which a movie is
an action movie so if you take movie
love that laughs you knows 0.9 or rating
on the romance fields of highly romantic
movie but 0 on the action skills there
are almost no action in that movie
romance forever is a 1.0 lot of romance
and 0.01 action I don't know maybe oh
there's a minor contraction that movie
or something so it's a little bit of
action
skipping 1 let's do a source vs. karate
maybe that as a 0 romance rating no
romance at all on that that plenty of
action and you know non-stop car chases
maybe again there's a tiny bit of
romance in that movie but maybe
and then you have two puppies of love
again maybe a romance movie with no
action though so if we have features
like these then each movie can be
represented with a feature vector
let's take movie one so let's call these
movies you know movies one two three
four and five but my first movie love at
last I have my two features 0.9 and 0
and so these are features x1 and x2 and
let's add an extra feature as usual
which is Mario interceptor feature x0
which is equal to 1 and so putting these
together I would then have a feature x1
the superscript 1 denotes is the feature
vector for my first movie and this
feature vector is equal to 1 the first
one there is this intercept term and
then my two features 0.90 like so so if
I love at last I will have a feature
vector x1 for the movie romance forever
I may have a separate feature vector x2
and so on and for souls vs. karate I
would have you know a different feature
vector X superscript 5 also consistent
with our earlier notation that we were
using going to set n to be the number of
features not counting this x0 - septum
and so n is equal to 2 because we have
two features x1 and x2 capturing the
degree of romance and the degree of
action in this movie now in order to
make predictions here's one thing to do
which is that we can treat predicting
the ratings of each user as a separate
linear regression problem so
specifically let's say that for each
user J we're going to learn a parameter
vector theta J which would be an r3 in
this case more generally theta J would
be
our n plus 1 where n is the number of
features not counting the etc and we're
going to predict user J as rating movie
I with just the inner product between
yield parameter vector theta and the
features X I so let's take a specific
example let's take a user one so that
would be Alice and associating with
Alice would be some parameter vector
theta one and our second user Bob will
be associated with a different parameter
vector theta two Carol we associated to
a different parameter vector theta three
and Dave a different parameter vector
theta four so let's say we want to make
a prediction for what Alice will think
of the movie cute puppies of love well
that movie is going to have some
parameter vector X 3 where we have that
x3 is going to be equal to 1 which is 4
intercept term and then 0.99 and then 0
and let's say for this example let's say
that you know we've somehow already
gotten a parameter vector theta 1 for
Alice we will say later exactly how we
come up with this parameter vector but
let's just say for now that you know
some unspecified learning algorithm has
learned the parameter vector theta 1 and
is equal to the 0 5 0 so our prediction
for this entry is going to be equal to
theta 1 that is Alice's parameter vector
transpose X 3 that is the feature vector
for the Q puppies of love movie number 3
and so the inner product between these
two vectors is going to be you know 5
times 0.9
which is equal to your 4.95 and so my
prediction for this value over here is
going to be four point nine five maybe
that seems like a reasonable value if
indeed to them
this is my parameter vector theta one so
all we're doing here is we're applying a
different copy of essentially linear
regression for each user and we're
saying that what Alice does is Alice has
some parameter vector theta one that she
uses you know that that we use to
predict her ratings as a function of how
romantic and how action-packed movie is
and Bob in Cameron Dave each of them
have a different linear function of the
romantic nodes and action ysidro Mans
and the degree of action in in movie and
that that's how we're going to predict
their star ratings
more formally here's how we can write
down the problem a notation is that our
our J is equal to 1 that user J has
rated movie I and Y IJ is the rating of
that movie if that if that rating exists
that is a that user has actually rated
that movie and on the previous line we
also defined these theta J which is a
parameter of a user X I which is a
feature vector for specific movie every
user and each movie we predict that
rating as follows so let me introduce
just temporarily introduce one extra bit
of notation MJ going to use MJ to denote
the number of users rated by the movie
Jane going to need this notation only
for this line now in order to learn the
parameter vector for theta J well how we
do so this is basically a linear
regression problem so what we can do is
just choose a parameter vector theta J
so that the predicted values here are as
close as possible to the values that we
observed in our training set to the
values we observed in our data so let's
write that down in order to learn the
parameter vector theta J let's minimize
over my parameter vector theta J of some
and I want to sum over all movies that
user J has rated so we write this as sum
over all values of AI that's the : r I J
equals 1 so the way to read this your
summation index is this is summation
over all the values of I so there are i
j is equal to 1 since to be summing over
all the movies that user J has rated and
then I'm going to compute theta J
transpose X I so that's the prediction
of user J's rating on Ruby I minus y I J
so that's the actual observed rating
squared and then let me just divide by
the number of movies that user J has
actually rated it as divided by 1 over 2
MJ and so this is just like the these
squares regressions it's just like you
know linear regression where we want to
choose the parameter vector theta J to
minimize this type of squared error term
and if you want we can also add in a
regularization term so it's a plus
lambda over 2 m and this is really 2 MJ
because there's a zip we have MJ
examples right because if user J has
rated that many movies the sort of like
we have that many data points on which
to fit the parameters theta J and then
let me add in my usual regularization
term here of theta J k squared as usual
this sum this room k equals 1 through n
so here theta J is going to be an N plus
1 dimensional vector where in our
earlier example n was equal to 2 the
more broadly more generally n is the
number of features we have per movie and
so as usual we don't regularize over
theta 0 we don't rewrite over the bias
terms those sums from k equals 1 through
n so if you minimize this as a function
of theta J you get a good solution you
get a pretty good estimate of a
parameter vector theta J with which to
make predictions for user J's movie
ratings for recommender systems I'm
going to change this notation a little
bit so to simplify the subsequent math
I'm actually going to get rid of this
term MJ so that's just a constant right
so I can delete it without changing the
value of theta J I get out of this
optimization so if you imagine taking
this whole equation taking this whole
expression the x MJ get rid of that
Const
and whether minimizes I should still get
the same value of theta J as before so
just to repeat what we wrote on the
previous slide here's our optimization
objective in order to learn theta J
which is the parameter for user J we're
going to minimize over theta J of this
optimization objectives so this is our
usual squared error term and then this
is our regularization term now of course
in building a recommender system we
don't just want to learn parameters for
a single user we want to learn
parameters for all of the all about
users so I have n subscript new users so
I want to learn all of these parameters
and so what I'm going to do is take this
minimal take this optimization objective
and just add an extra summation there so
you know this expression here with the
one half on top against it's exactly the
same as what we have on top except there
now instead of just doing this for a
specific user theta J I'm going to sum
my objective over all of my users and
then minimize this overall optimization
objective minimizes overall cost
function and when I minimize this as a
function of theta 1 theta 2 up to theta
n you I will get a separate parameter
vector for each user and I can then use
that to make predictions for all of my
users but all of my n subscript new uses
so putting everything together
this was our optimization objective on
top and to give this thing a name or
just call this J of theta 1 dot dot
theta and user J as usual as my
optimization objective which I'm trying
to minimize next in order to actually do
the minimization if you were to derive
the gradient descent up
is these are the equations that you will
get so you take theta J K and subtract
from an alpha which is the learning rate
times these terms over here on the right
so we're slightly different cases when K
equals zero in one case no to 0 because
our regularization term here regular
Rises only the values of theta J K for K
not equal 0 so we don't regularize theta
0 so the slightly different updates for
k equals 0 k naught equals 0 and this
term over here for example is just the
partial derivative with respect to your
parameter that of your optimization
objective right and so you know this is
just gradient descent but um and I've
already computed the derivatives applied
them into here and if this and of these
gradient descent updates look a lot like
what we had for linear regression that's
because these are essentially the same
as linear regression the only minor
difference is that for linear regression
you know we had these 1 over m terms
it's really 1 would have been 1 over m j
but because earlier when we are deriving
the optimization objective we got rid of
dis that's why we don't have this 1 over
m term but otherwise it's really some of
my training examples of
vo ever times XK plus that
regularization term plus that term that
the regularization term contributes to
the derivative and so if you're using
gradient descent here's how you can
minimize the cost function J to learn
all the parameters and using these
formulas for the derivatives if you want
you can also plug them into a more
advanced optimization algorithm like
conjugate gradients or l-bfgs or what
have you and use that to try to minimize
the cost function J as well so hopefully
you now know how you can apply
essentially a variation on linear
regression in order to predict different
movie ratings by different users this
particular algorithm is called a
content-based recommendations or a
content-based approach because we assume
that we have available to us features
for the different movies and so we're
features that capture what is the
content of these movies of how
romantical this movie how much action in
this movie and we're really using
features of the content of the movies to
make our predictions but for many movies
we don't actually have such features or
maybe very difficult to get such
features for all of our movies or for
all of whatever items we're trying to
sell and so in the next video we'll
start to talk about an approach to
recommender systems that isn't
content-based and does not assume that
we have someone else giving us all of
these features for all of the movies in
our data set